<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Occasional Poems</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:collection">
		<article id="evening" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Evening</h3>
			<p>
				<span>Grey grows the glimmer of an April even</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, as the sunset glory fades away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There comes to float upon the clouds to Heaven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The burden of the day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hushed are the birds: save that their wakeful leader</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Begins the silence silently to break,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the dark shelvings of the darkening cedar</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Across the low-lit lake.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And distant chimes, on that full air delaying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In gentle cadence swell a softened sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the far voices of the children playing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Harmoniously reply.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And slow ascends the burden of creation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dimly dying tract of western fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Songs of rejoicing, tears of lamentation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A tirmament’s desire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The widow’s cry, that flings to God above her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The words of promise that his love hath given,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the lost longings of a lonely lover</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That scorn the help of Heaven.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The dumb despairing of an orphan’s sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That living lays his life beneath the sod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that alone which shares all human sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A human trust in God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So slowly rises ’mid the softened splendour</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of dewborn darkness ominously furled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lowly agony of man’s surrender,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The voices of the world.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah, those sad longings, never to be granted!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bring they not back the old resistless flow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of those tear-watered memories we planted</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A little year ago?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But hush! the gathering shadows now have banished</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The golden splendours that but yet we saw:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, with the world’s⁠—the sunset glories vanished</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Are found again no more.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Eton, 1879.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dauer-in-wechsel" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<!-- titled "In Spring" in the TOC -->
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="de">Dauer in Wechsel</h3>
			<section>
				<header>I</header>
				<p>
					<span>Lean and shaken autumn woods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leafless autumn weather,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gone the graces, gone the goods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Autumn altogether.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Idle autumn fallows sigh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fruitless, dull, apart;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaden autumn in the sky.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Autumn in my heart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gone the springtime, gone the strife-time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each first passionate goal:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Utter autumn of one life-time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Autumn of a soul.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section>
				<header>II</header>
				<p>
					<span>Sudden comes a shiny June day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What is this? and where?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why does twilight leap to noonday?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell me⁠ ⁠… ? She is there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Back to summer, back to spring-time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back the white dawn air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back the blamelessness and ring-time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now that⁠—She is there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Peonies are pouring purple,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pinks incense the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roses, lilies, all at her pull⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just because⁠—She’s there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the gladness! O the madness!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O the rifled air!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah⁠ ⁠… that sudden shiver of sadness⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is she really there?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This pure perfect iris vision,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This diviner air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it but the old derision⁠ ⁠… ?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just the old despair⁠ ⁠…</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Autumn, you bedraggled scoundrel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go away, get out!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Else you’ll deep and deeper down drill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heart-holes⁠—make me doubt.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section>
				<header>III</header>
				<p>
					<span>What? It’s Winter come already?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joy one bears the pain of⁠ ⁠…</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can still be stalwart, steady⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing to complain of.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Only it is hard to bear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinking of the past of it;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hard to say good-bye, my Dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hard to feel the last of it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If betwixt the live and dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I should never see you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blessings on your darling head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you just could be you.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="separation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Separation</h3>
			<p>
				<span>There’s thousands of miles of country,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thousands of leagues of sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And myriad men and women</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That separate you and me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To each is the gain of the struggle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To each is the pain of the loss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’m wondering up at the Pleiads,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you at the Southern Cross.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’ve talked to you now for an hour;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ve listened⁠—my heart can tell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I hold your hand for a moment⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dear love, it shall vet be well.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="distance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Distance</h3>
			<p>
				<span>You pray to-night, I know, for me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You kneel beneath the straining spars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Between unfathomable sea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And undiscoverable stars.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And all the unsounded waste beneath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the unbounded vast above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are lesser wonder than the breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That breathed the prayer of such a love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And all the soundless, boundless roll</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of years that claim and change and chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is less eternal than the soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That dares and bears that sacred pain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-observation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">An Observation</h3>
			<p>
				<span>You would not know the brown thatch now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">So grey the years have grown it;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your love had kept it bright enow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">If only you had shown it.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You would not know the blue eyes now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">So dim the tears have made them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They well had danced and glanced, I trow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">If but your love had bade them.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You would not know the sad heart now.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That leapt so at yonr greeting;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet you have listened long ago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And blessed it for its beating.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You would not know the hard mouth now.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Nor words that wander from it, or</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The warm close kiss you used to miss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">So low is my thermometer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You would not know the forehead now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Nor all that homed within it;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only a kinkled, wrinkled brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Though your least word would win it.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Your voice still wins to all it can,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Your sweet smile softens some eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You and the others took a man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And made a mlzzy mummy.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="nearer-my-god" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Nearer, my God</h3>
			<p>
				<span>“Nearer, my God, to Thee.” you sang to-day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The great dome trembled to your passionate breath;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Happy⁠—who seekst not but to find a way</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Nearer to Death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Nearer, my God, to Thee”⁠—but there are some</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who one discomforting watch of life must keep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose only dream is wake, and once to be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Nearer to Sleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Nearer, my God, to Thee”⁠—yet there were days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love turned glad eyes around, and not above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sold my soul to win my dear love’s praise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Nearer to Love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Nearer, my God, to Thee;” bow down to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Me, who such waste and wandering ways have trod.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love, lead me also at the last to be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Nearer to God.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-little-month" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">A little Month</h3>
			<p>
				<span>While through dead woods dead fires of Autumn creep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tiowers are fallen, and birds have ceased to sing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A fair first blossom in his May of Spring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fell on the Winter of Eternal Sleep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Live Springs sow seeds, but dying Autumns reap</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Harvest: and misery-memory thoughts that cling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Closer than motherhood, at the last shall bring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Harvest of heart in heaven to those that woep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only the watch and wail are weary-long,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sad eyes see not what glad eyes have seen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And dead is dead, and what is dead is dear.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lift up thy heart, let dear love right the wrong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Turning the thought of things that might have been</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tender, by thinking of the things that were.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="on-the-drawing-of-a-child-in-hospital" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">On the Drawing of a Child in Hospital</h3>
			<p>
				<span>Over this little head</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Dark wings are beating;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About this little bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Life and Death meeting.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">Sudden in dusk of death</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And strangled choke of pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The bright death quivers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Touches the springs of breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And, where graves gloomed beneath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Young life flows back again</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">In sunny rivers.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="surge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Surge</h3>
			<p>
				<span>Flickering shadow cast by the crest of a surging billow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flinging from its forehead, flying from the foam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Keeping live its utmost, trusting to its pillow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Curls the thunder over, drowns it far from home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Flickering lovelight cast into eyes by the eyes believed in,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flashing to the forehead, flying in the breath;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lightning gashing scar by a soul that a soul’s deceived in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surge of drowning sorrow, yearning it were death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="warte-nur-balde" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<!-- titled "One Day’s Dawn" in the TOC -->
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="de">Warte Nur, Balde</h3>
			<p>
				<span>Calamity hath brought me very low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dressed me in desolation, hate and scorn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The lilies dear life grew</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Stink in a putrid stew.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet wait I, looking through the long night’s woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For one day’s dawn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The righteous round their eyes and mouths aghast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>White sepulchres flush rosy red with scorn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Each burgess of Gomorrah</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Lifts holy hands of horror;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ll watch their faces when the dark is past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">On that day’s dawn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the last darkness of the long black hours,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The oath of patience yet all unforsworn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The face I love will come,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The voice no more be dumb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thorn-crown blow a coronet of flowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Aud that day dawn.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-portrait" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">To a Portrait</h3>
			<p>
				<span>Beautiful Face!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is your heart broken that you look so sad?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is there no heart of earth that once made glad</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your heart, to hearten yet your flower of grace?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is God untender toward you? Or can Man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loving such dear eyes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or, save despairing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For too much caring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grudge his uucrownedness in the race he ran,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And squandered life and loved and lost the prize?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They pay the worthiest cost,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose lives for you were lost.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-eighth-point" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">The Eighth Point</h3>
			<p>
				<span>O Little face of heaven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O Little heart of hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If all love’s sins were seven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">You’ve made me sin them well:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sin well and suffer greatly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And still to grace my state,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ve scored your eighth point lately,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And taught me how to hate.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="amictus-amoris" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="la">Amictus Amoris</h3>
			<p>
				<span>About the perfect body of my love</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A vesture clings, wherefrom no force may free her;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tho’ she stood naked to the stars above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Even so you should not see her.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The invisible fragrance breathing round the rose⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The infrangible warmth that will not leave the fire,⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The losing that to loving elings so close⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">So clings my love’s attire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It covers every precious part of her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">It holds her dear dark hair within its hood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her eyes look thro’ it; with it where’er she stir</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Her little feet are shod.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She may not set it off for any stress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Nor night nor day; yet naught of earth may soil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The first fair freshness of that angel-dress.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Nor tears, nor time, nor toil.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No holy priest absolving for his Lord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">No mightiest monarch to his throne ascending,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No martyr maiden, kneeling to the sword,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Wears so divine a lending.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet all that radiant raiment of my love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">No questing sight, nor touch, shall e’er discover;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For warp and woof, the web is woven of</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The kisses of her lover,</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="non-nobis-domine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="la">Non nobis, Domine.</h3>
			<p>
				<span>Not unto us, O Lord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not unto us the rapture of the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The peace of night, or love’s divine surprise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High heart, high speech, high deeds, ’mid honouring eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For at Thy word</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All these are taken away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not unto us, O Lord;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To us Thou givest the scorn, the scourge, the scar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ache of life, the loneliness of Death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The insufferable sufficiency of breath.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with thy sword</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou piercest very far.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not unto us, O Lord;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nay, Lord, but unto her be all things given.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My light, and life, and earth, and sky be blasted.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But let not all that wealth of love be wasted;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let Hell afford</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pavement of her Heaven.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="et-dedit" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Et dedit</h3>
				<p epub:type="subtitle" xml:lang="la">eis petitionem ipsorum et misit saturitatem in animas eorum</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Ps. CVI. 15.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis well, ’tis well, in the lowest hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And I laugh at the lick of the fire;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The flame roars up in its brimstone cup,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And it <em>lives</em> what lies on the pyre.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They’ve done their worst for the man they cursed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">They’ve made damnation dire;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But they can’t undo the joy I knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">When I knew my Heart’s Desire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There’s one will scream, and one blaspheme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">As they writhe in the molten mire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And curse the earth that gave them birth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And damn their dam and their sire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It pleases the devils to watch their revels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But I wake the devils to ire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I burst into rhyme at the thought of the time</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">When I found my Heart’s Desire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They wrench my back on a red-hot rack,⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">They comb my nerves with wire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They poison with pain the blood of my brain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Till the devils of devilry tire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They spit from above on the name of my Love;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Thev call my Love a liar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they can’t take away the dream of the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Wlien I won my Heart’s Desire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So here in hell it is all very well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And I’m snug as a beast in a byre;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The devils are beat by the thought of my Sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And I don’t propose to retire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And blood scalds skin where the flame bites in,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But I like the warmth of the fire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it burns me through with the heat I knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">When I held my Heart’s Desire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">O Heart’s Desire, who art not by my side.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Whose Love, so sweetly lived, so strangely died,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Thro’ faltering, falseness, failure, and the fire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Be still for ever all my Heart’s Desire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span xml:lang="la">Arridet nobis lectio Hebraica <em>maciem.</em></span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-lo-bengula" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<!-- titled "To Lo-Benga, his Bull-Dog" in the TOC -->
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Lo-Bengula</h3>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">On His Redemption From Slavery, His Third Birthday and the Occasion of His Approaching Marriage.</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Burst from the bondage of a brigand tomb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou coniest⁠—<span xml:lang="el">Alcestis</span>-wise⁠—from Bethnal Green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O rare Lo-Ben!⁠—what day yon sun has seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two cycles since thy summons from the womb.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our mined hearts are full: yet there is room</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even so, to meditate thy marriage-queen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And⁠—like the Thane of Cawdor’s⁠—’cross the scene,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Horrid, thy awful generations loom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou heritor of hideousness divine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now thro’ thy pulses peals the passionate pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which Shakspeare knew, which Gœthe: there shall be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wonderful things made new, a lordly line,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waking eternal ugliness again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of little loathsome loved Lobengulæ.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His Bull-Dog, stolen and recovered.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="epitaph-on-a-dog" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Epitaph on a Dog</h3>
			<p>
				<span>Here lies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that head and heart of dearness</span>
			   <br/>
				<span>POPSY BOO</span>
				<br/>
				<span>who</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in splendid faithful followinig of his master’s example</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the joy of life, the heart of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>worshipped by master, mistress, and children</span>
				<br/>
				<span>died in a mist of tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>1901</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Who travels now through all that shadowy way”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“From which no sparrow comes again, they say.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ever faithful and following</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He loved much and sinned much</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But every sin and love he decorated.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bland suave and prudent</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He was blind to a multitude of things he saw and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>deaf to a larger multitude of things he heard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>by his fortunate faculty;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of barking at the right moment</span>
				<br/>
				<span>he not infrequently saved</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the fortunes of the family,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>who consecrate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>this tribute</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of affection to his memory.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-immortal-end" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">The Immortal End</h3>
			<p>
				<span>Not in the upland lawns of mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Not bv the Syrian stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in low trodden tracks we find</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The vision and the gleam.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though rock-o’erhung and burden-bowed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Man sees in faint and fasting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blue sky is more than all the cloud</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And very much more lasting.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It matters not what life we spend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">What anguish we inspire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So there be one immortal end</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To one immense desire,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So that, without one finest fleck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Thro’ fire and wrath and rods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Incense not insult shall bedeck</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The falseness of our gods.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dark" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">The Dark</h3>
			<p>
				<span>When we are locked in stones away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With all death’s dark between,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will that which then they’ll call our clay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Think of what might have been?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What shall I meet at spirits’ tryst,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">What will the moonlight bring?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A shining shape of amethyst,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Or just an ugly Thing?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Down in the darkness shall we dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Or will even dreams be done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of love, and passion, and the gleam</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of what was once our sun?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A sun whose shining never failed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Whose light was never dim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But only seemed at seasons veiled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Because we clouded him.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then once be wake, aod clutch the dark</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And fight the choking breath.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“O Christ! why did I?” Then a spark</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of blinding thought⁠—and death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-fragment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">A Fragment</h3>
			<p>
				<span>I have a little white thing wonderful</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Untamed unchained as sea or sky⁠ ⁠…</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the sun and the salt of both tiding the river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both arrow light, amazing and radiant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So that thought, sun and flesh are only due,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That one which keeps creation in its hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And makes life beautiful and clean and whole⁠ ⁠…</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="life-s-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Life’s Song</h3>
			<p>
				<span>Ah, Life, is this Thy song:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Endure and die⁠ ⁠… ?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Still strive with pain and wrong</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As true hearts strove;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till Love and Truth and Pureness, which are strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Death’s self disprove.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah Life, Thy crowning song</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is crowning Love.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
